Welcome back.
In this video I'll show you how
to evaluate a language model.
The metric for this is called perplexity
and I will explain what this is.
>> First, you'll divide the text corpus
into train validation and test data,
then you will dive into the concepts
of perplexity an important metric
used to evaluate language models.
So, how can you tell how well your
language model is performing?
Recall from the previous videos that
a language model assigns a probability to
each sentence.
The model was trained on the corpus.
So for the training sentences,
it may assign very high probabilities.
You should therefore first split
the corpus to have some testing and
validation data that are not used for
the training.
As you may have done in the other
machine learning projects,
you'll create the following splits of
training validation and test sets.
The training set is used
to train your model.
The validation set is used for
things like tuning hyper-parameters,
and the test set is held out for the end.
Where you test it once and
get an accuracy score that reflects how
well your model performs on unseen data.
A commonly used splits for
smaller data sets is 80, 10, 10 or
80% to training 10% to validation and
10% to testing.
In a very large data sets such as
text analysis testing could make
up as little as 1% of your training sets.
In NLP, there are two main methods for
splitting.
You can split the corpus by choosing
longer continuous segments,
like Wikipedia articles or
you can randomly choose short
sequences of words such as
those in the sentences.
Now that you've split the data sets
you can evaluate the test sets using
the perplexity metric.
Perplexity is a commonly used
metric in language modeling.
But what does it mean?
If you're familiar with the word
perplexed, you know that a person is
perplexed when they are confused
by something very complex.
You can think of perplexity as
a measure of the complexity in a sample
of texts like how complex that text is.
Perplexity is used to tell us whether
a set of sentences look like they
were written by humans rather than by
a simple program choosing words at random.
A text that is written by humans is more
likely to have a lower perplexity score.
On the other hand a text
generated by random word choice
would have a higher perplexity.
Let me show you how to calculate
the perplexity of the model.
You'll start by computing the probability
of all sentences in your test sets.
And then raise the probability
to the power of -1/m.
Perplexity is basically the inverse
probability of the test sets normalized by
the number of words in the test set.
So the higher the language model estimates
the probability of your test set the lower
the perplexity is going to be.
As a side note worth mentioning,
perplexity is closely related to
entropy which measures uncertainty.
Let's look at an example of two language
models that are going to return different
probabilities for your test sets W.
There are 100 words in the test sets.
So m is equal to 100.
The first model returns a 0.9 probability
of the test set, which is very high.
This means that the first model
predicts your test sets very well.
So the model is highly effective.
As you can see the perplexity for
that model and test set is about 1,
which is very low.
The second model returns
a very low probability for
your test sets 10 to the power of- 250.
For this model and test set the perplexity
is equal to about 316 which is
much higher than the first model.
So one thing to remember is that
the smaller the perplexity score
the more likely the sentence is
to sound natural to human ears.
For context, good language
models have perplexity scores
between 60 to 20 sometimes even lower for
English.
Perplexities for character level language
models where you track characters
instead of words will be lower.
Now, we get ready to calculate
perplexity for bigram models.
In a bigram model you calculate
the products of bigram
probabilities of all sentences,
then take the power of- 1/m.
Recall that the power of-
1/m of the probability is
the same as the mth order
route of 1/ probability.
One thing to notice here is that in the
case of the same probability for different
test sets, the bigger the sets m is the
lower the final perplexity is going to be.
If all sentences in the test
sets are concatenated,
the formula can be simplified to
the products of probabilities of
bigrams in the entire sets.
One other thing to note
is that some papers
use log perplexity instead of perplexity.
So the perplexity formulae changes from
the mth order root of 1 over probability
to 1 over m times the sum of the
logarithms of the probabilities of words.
This is easier to compute.
So it's not uncommon to find researchers
reporting the log perplexity of
language models.
Note that the logarithm to
the base 2 is typically used.
In a good model with
perplexity between 20 and 60,
log perplexity would be between 4.3 and
5.9.
Now how does the improved perplexity
translates in a production
quality language model?
Here is an example of
a Wall Street Journal Corpus.
If you take a unigram language model,
the perplexity is very high 962.
This just generates words
by their probability.
With a bigram language model, the text
starts to make a little more sense.
Using a trigram, you can see the language
it produces is pretty close to reasonable.
The perplexity is now equal
to 109 much closer to
the target perplexity of 22:16,
I mentioned earlier.
Later in the specialization,
you'll encounter deep learning language
models with even lower perplexity scores.
>> You now understand what perplexity
is and how to evaluate language models.
To use them for real tasks we'll need to
be able to handle words that did not occur
in the training set.
I'll show you how to do
that in the next video.